blog: add blog post for migrating to WebContentsView (#667)
electron/website: blog/migrate-to-webcontentsview.md

---
title: Migrating from BrowserView to WebContentsView
date: 2024-11-11T00:00:00.000Z
authors: yangannyx

> slug: migrate-to-webcontentsview

Author: is it alright that the slug doesn't exactly match the title?

Reviewer: There is precedent for this in a few of our blog files, [for a recent example](https://github.com/electron/website/blob/main/blog/rfcs.md?plain=1), so I would say it is fine.

Developers familiar with BrowserWindows and BrowserViews should note that `BrowserWindow` and `WebContentsView` are subclasses inheriting from the [`BaseWindow`](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/api/base-window) and [`View`](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/api/view) base classes, respectively. To fully understand the available instance variables and methods, be sure to consult the documentation for these base classes.

## Migration steps

### 1. Upgrade Electron to 30.0.0 or higher

:::warning

> Electron releases may contain breaking changes that affect your application. It’s a good idea to test and land the electron upgrade on your app _first_ before proceeding with the rest of this migration. A list of breaking changes can be found in the release notes for each major version on the Electron Blog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Electron releases may contain breaking changes that affect your application. It’s a good idea to test and land the Electron upgrade on your app _first_ before proceeding with the rest of this migration. A list of breaking changes can be found in the release notes for each major version on the Electron Blog.
```

We should also link breaking-changes.md

:::

### 2. Familiarize yourself with where your application uses BrowserViews

One way to do this is to search your codebase for `new BrowserView(`. This should give you a sense for how your application is using BrowserViews and how many call sites need to be migrated.

:::tip
For the most part, each instance where your app instantiates new BrowserViews can be migrated in isolation from the others.
:::

### 3. Migrate each usage of `BrowserView`

> 1. Migrate the instantiation. This should be fairly straight forward because [WebContentsView](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/api/web-contents-view#new-webcontentsviewoptions) and [BrowserView’s](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/api/browser-view#new-browserviewoptions-experimental-deprecated) constructors have essentially the same shape. Both accept [WebPreferences](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/api/structures/web-preferences) via the `webPreferences` param.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Migrate the instantiation. This should be fairly straightforward because [WebContentsView](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/api/web-contents-view#new-webcontentsviewoptions) and [BrowserView’s](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/api/browser-view#new-browserviewoptions-experimental-deprecated) constructors have essentially the same shape. Both accept [WebPreferences](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/api/structures/web-preferences) via the `webPreferences` param.
```

   | `win.setTopBrowserView` | `win.contentView.addChildView`                                     | Calling `addChildView` on an existing view reorders it to the top. |
   | `win.getBrowserViews`   | `win.contentView.children`                                         |                                                                    |

4. Migrate the `setAutoResize` instance method to a resize listener.

   ```diff
   - this.browserView.setAutoResize({
   -   vertical: true,
   - })

   + this.browserWindow.on('resize', () => {
   +   if (!this.browserWindow || !this.webContentsView) {
   +     return;
   +   }
   +   const bounds = this.browserWindow.getBounds();
   +   this.webContentsView.setBounds({
   +     x: 0,
   +     y: 0,
   +     width: bounds.width,
   +     height: bounds.height,
   +    });
   +  });
   ```

   :::tip
   All existing usage of `browserView.webContents` and instance methods `browserView.setBounds`, `browserView.getBounds` , and `browserView.setBackgroundColor` do not need to be migrated and should work with a `WebContentsView` instance out of the box!
   :::

### 4. Test and commit your changes

> Congrats, you’ve migrated onto WebContentsViews! 🎉

Reviewer 2: We should leave a clear feedback/escalation path at the end of the blog post (e.g. where do people report bugs after upgrading? Is there a GH label that maintainers will use to track outstanding WCV migration bugs so we don't get duplicate reports?)
